<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

7 May 2008

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM eastern time. There were
     <a href="#attendees">11 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="meeting_jan08.html">6 January 2008
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Region Proposal was discussed
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey discussed the status of the Region proposal.
          It is basically ready, except for the issue of
          changing <tt>PointRange</tt>, <tt>PointList</tt>,
          <tt>ElementRange</tt>, and <tt>ElementList</tt> to
          something else for better ease of use with edge-based.
          Allmaras would like to use <tt>ConnectivityRange</tt> and
          <tt>ConnectivityList</tt> instead, not only for Regions but
          in other places in the SIDS as well. Because V3.0 is almost
          ready to be officially released, we might want to target that
          version for the first implementation of Regions.
     <li> Hann mentioned that the key is making the MLL easy to use. It
          really does not matter so much what is underneath.
     <li> <u>Hauser will lead a mini-telecon for those involved with
          Regions on May 13</u>, to iron it out.
     <li> Hauser decided the final proposal should still be posted to
          the website prior to implementation.
     <li> Allmaras and Wedan said having Regions ready for June or July
          release in V3.0 was possible.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of V3.0 - ready for release?
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Discussion of XML output capability.  Consensus decision was
          to leave XML capability in V3.0, but leave it out of the
          documentation and configure script.  Thus, it will be easy
          to reinstate if needed, but it will not be a "supported"
          (or well-known) option for users.  This will simplify
          things. <u>Wedan to remove option regarding XML output from
          configure script in V3.0.</u>
     <li> Discussion of whether HDF-5 should be bundled in with CGNS
          release, so users do not have to go off and get it on their
          own. <u>Hauser to look into the issue of bundling HDF-5 with the
          CGNS release of V3.0.</u>
     <li> Parallel HDF-5 is not a part of the V3.0 release yet.  Hauser
          said it would be at least put up on SourceForge soon. (This is
          also an earlier action item.)
     <li> Hann insisted it was very important for his group to have CGNS
          V3.0 officially released as soon as possible.
     <li> Poinot said it would be a good idea to ask current vendors to
          test it and report prior to releasing, but others indicated
          that CGNS implementation is minimal at best in many vendor
          codes so it is doubtful they would be inclined to respond
          quickly. However, Hauser agreed to contact vendors about this.
          <u>Hauser to contact vendors regarding testing V3.0 prior to
          release if possible and report back to committee.</u>
     <li> Hauser suggested to improve documentation and build
          instructions of V3.0. <u>Wedan and Hauser will look into this.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Potential funding opportunity from NSF did not work out - call got
     cancelled due to lack of funding at NSF.
<p>
<li> Hauser asked for a volunteer for vice-chair position - none present
     were interested at this time.
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel capability to V3.0 on
          SourceForge CVS and will let users know when it is available.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to send Wedan any existing documentation on <tt>NGON_n +
          NFACE_n</tt> for modification/addition, then post.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done, but not posted yet.  <u>Towne and Rumsey to add
               <tt>NGON_n + NFACE_n</tt> documentation into V3.0 SIDS.</u>
               Furthermore, <u>Rumsey to send email to committee members
               describing <tt>NGON_n + NFACE_n</tt> and ask them to try
               it out.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Allmaras to finalize Regions proposal modification, including
          proposed additions to <tt>FlowSolution</tt>,
          <tt>DiscreteData</tt>, <tt>BC</tt>, and <tt>BCDataSet</tt> and
          send to Rumsey for posting on website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> still in progress... <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Paul, Bussoletti, and Allmaras to look into finding
          development (particularly for MLL implementation) resources at
          Boeing.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Duque and Hauser to assume lead on new discussion/proposal for
          handling sprays of unconnected points.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to have further discussions with Poinot on usage of XML
          and possible need for changes.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done - decision regarding XML in V3.0 made during this
               telecon
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser, Rumsey, and Poinot to continue to explore possible CGNS
          meeting in Europe.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> ongoing... EUCASS in 2009 is a possibility... <u>action item
               carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will add a button to ADFViewer to allow user to compress
          file after deleting nodes.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done in V3.0 (cgnstools3)
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to check with Towne if documentation is in place for
          <tt>cg_config_compress</tt>.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done - it is in MLL under "Configuring CGNS Internals"
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot to send necessary coding changes for HDF-5 linking to
          Hauser for implementation into V3.0 alpha version.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done but unable to retrieve; will do again... <u>action item
               carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to look into adding back (optional) registration to
          website when people download CGNS.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done - we have had 8 registrants since February 2008
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to respond to some of the CGNSTalk issues that are now
          closed.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to look into methods on SourceForge for getting Poinot
          developer access: switch from CVS to SVN? or use SSL?
          <ol type=i>
          <li> not done yet - Poinot will try CVS again; <u>action item
               carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to notify people about V3.0 alpha.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to release 2.5.3.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to speak to Koziol at HDF-5 Group about issues related
          to developers and funding; and also to ask about when their
          link-fix release will become official.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Link fix for HDF5 is now official. HDF5 V1.8.0 has the
               link fix implemented.  <u>Hauser will talk to Koziol about
               funding and collaboration - new action item</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to investigate problem with NFS-mounted soft links when
          re-write file.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> resolved in V3.0
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node even
          though its new dimensions are the same.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> not done yet; <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to investigate type casting of int to void pointer then
          dereferencing (<tt>cg_configure</tt>).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> changed some data types so compiler does not complain as
               much - done
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey and Hauser to work out issues on domain name with
          ANSYS-ICEM.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Hauser has contacted them for an invoice.  <u>Hauser will
               take control of domain name `and will consider possibility
               of moving website to Utah State site.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>

<p>
<li> Open items (purpose of these is to not lose track of long-term
     issues that come up)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> 3 of the items are essentially "done" for V3.0 and can
               probably be removed from the "to-do" list
          </ol>
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Hunten indicated early summer completion for next step.
               <u>Hauser to contact Hunten about ISO/STEP and ask the best
               way for us to comment.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to make Karman's changes to <tt>PYRA</tt> elements:
          change <tt>PYRA_14</tt> to <tt>PYRA_13</tt>, without the
          centroid, and add <tt>PYRA_14</tt> with the base mid-face
          defined (in software and in SIDS).  Need to wait until V3.0
          for this due to compatibility issues.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done in V3.0
          </ol>
     <li> Need to upgrade / update User's Guide as appropriate (such as
          additional specific examples).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done by Rumsey and Towne
          </ol>
     <li> Need to resolve slow behavior and larger file sizes that can
          occur in CGNS files when there are many (thousands) of nodes.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> This is no longer as major issue and can be removed.
          </ol>
     <li> Develop method to write info one element at a time to save
          memory via something like <tt>cg_section_partialwrite</tt>
          (Miller 10/19/07 CGNSTalk)
     <li> Address issue of possible need for "long" instead of "int" to
          avoid signed 2 Gig limit (Miller 10/19/07 CGNSTalk).
     </ol>
<p>
<li> There will be no official CGNS meeting in Seattle
<p>
<li> CGNS was recently entered into Wikipedia by Rumsey
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CGNS">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CGNS</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:45 PM. Next Telecon will be tentatively
     set for July 2.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser will lead a mini-telecon for those involved with
          Regions on May 13.
     <li> Wedan to remove instructions regarding XML output from
          configure script in V3.0.
     <li> Hauser to look into the issue of bundling HDF-5 with the CGNS
          release of V3.0.
     <li> Hauser to contact vendors regarding testing V3.0 prior to
          release if possible and report back to committee.
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel code to SourceForge and will
          let users know when it is available.
     <li> Towne and Rumsey to add <tt>NGON_n + NFACE_n</tt>
          documentation into V3.0 SIDS.
     <li> Rumsey to send email to committee members describing <tt>NGON_n +
          NFACE_n</tt> and ask them to try it out.
     <li> Allmaras to finalize Regions proposal modification,
          including proposed additions to <tt>FlowSolution</tt>,
          <tt>DiscreteData</tt>, <tt>BC</tt>, and <tt>BCDataSet</tt> and
          send to Rumsey for posting on website.
     <li> Paul, Bussoletti, and Allmaras to look into finding
          development (particularly for MLL implementation) resources at
          Boeing.
     <li> Duque and Hauser to assume lead on new discussion/proposal for
          handling sprays of unconnected points.
     <li> Hauser, Rumsey, and Poinot to continue to explore possible
          CGNS meeting in Europe.
     <li> Poinot to send necessary coding changes for HDF-5 linking to
          Hauser for implementation into V3.0 alpha version.
     <li> Hauser to look into methods on SourceForge for getting Poinot
          developer access: switch from CVS to SVN? or use SSL?
     <li> Hauser to speak to Koziol at HDF-5 Group about issues related
          to developers and funding;
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.
     <li> Hauser will take control of domain name and will consider
          possibility of moving website to Utah State site.
     <li> Hauser to contact Hunten about ISO/STEP and ask the best way
          for us to comment.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steve Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Anderson<td>
   <td>Concepts NREC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Earl Duque<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>ANSYS-CFX
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mike Jeffries<td>
   <td>Pointwise
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Simon Pereira<td>
   <td>ANSYS / ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot<td>
   <td>ONERA
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>no affiliation
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
     <ul>
     <li> under development
     </ul>
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0</u>
     </ul>
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
     <ul>
     <li> under development (success with automatic detection transparent
          to user will minimize impact)
     </ul>
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0</u>
     </ul>
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     under development (1.8.0 beta)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0 in combination with HDF-5 V1.8</u>
     </ul>
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 20 May 2008

</body>
</html>
